README.md, before:

# Infrastructure Definition

[![quality](https://github.com/cash-track/infra/actions/workflows/quality.yml/badge.svg?branch=main&event=push)](https://github.com/cash-track/infra/actions/workflows/quality.yml) [![deploy](https://github.com/cash-track/infra/actions/workflows/deploy.yml/badge.svg?branch=main&event=push)](https://github.com/cash-track/infra/actions/workflows/deploy.yml)

## Configure kubectl using doctl

```shell
$ doctl kubernetes cluster kubeconfig save k8s-cash-track
$ kubectl config current-context
```


### Default Namespace (optional)

Configure default namespace to avoid adding `-n namespace-name` every time

```shell
$ kubectl config get-users      # copy name of the user
$ kubectl config get-clusters   # copy name of the cluster
$ kubectl config set-context prod --namespace=cash-track --cluster={cluster} --user={user}  # use previously copied values
$ kubectl config use-context prod
```


## Dependencies

DigitalOcean managed cluster is used.


### Nginx Ingress

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/controller-v1.8.1/deploy/static/provider/do/deploy.yaml
```


### Cert Manager

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.9.1/cert-manager.yaml
```


### Metrics Server

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server/releases/latest/download/components.yaml
```


### GitHub Actions Runner Controller

```shell
$ helm repo add actions-runner-controller https://actions-runner-controller.github.io/actions-runner-controller
$ # or
$ helm repo update actions-runner-controller https://actions-runner-controller.github.io/actions-runner-controller
$ # then
$ helm upgrade --install --namespace actions-runner-system --create-namespace \
             --wait actions-runner-controller actions-runner-controller/actions-runner-controller \
             --set "githubWebhookServer.enabled=true"
```

Generate secret

```shell
$ cp common/actions-runner/.github-runner-secret.yml.example common/actions-runner/github-runner-secret.yml
```

Add GitHub personal access token to `common/actions-runner/github-runner-secret.yml`. Make sure you added all required permissions (see https://github.com/actions-runner-controller/actions-runner-controller#deploying-using-pat-authentication).

#### Upgrade

See https://github.com/actions/actions-runner-controller/blob/master/charts/actions-runner-controller/docs/UPGRADING.md

```shell
$ # REMEMBER TO UPDATE THE CHART_VERSION TO RELEVANT CHART VERSION!!!!
$ CHART_VERSION=0.23.3
$ 
$ curl -L https://github.com/actions/actions-runner-controller/releases/download/actions-runner-controller-0.23.3/actions-runner-controller-0.23.3.tgz | tar zxv --strip 1 actions-runner-controller/crds
$ 
$ kubectl replace -f crds/
$ 
$ # helm upgrade [RELEASE] [CHART] [flags]
$ helm upgrade actions-runner-controller \
  actions-runner-controller/actions-runner-controller \
  --install \
  --namespace actions-runner-system \
  --version ${CHART_VERSION}
 ```

### Kubernetes Dashboard

For the dashboard it is recommended to use [Kubernetes Dashboard projecs](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard). See [full installation instruction](https://gist.github.com/bikram20/4f4dbbaf5fcc874d5daee2e3b780d919).

#### Install

```shell
$ helm repo add kubernetes-dashboard https://kubernetes.github.io/dashboard/
$ helm upgrade \
    --install kubernetes-dashboard kubernetes-dashboard/kubernetes-dashboard \
    --create-namespace \
    --namespace kubernetes-dashboard \
    --set app.ingress.enabled=false \
    --set metrics-server.enabled=false \
    --set cert-manager.enabled=false \
    --set nginx.enabled=false
```

#### Usage

```shell
$ export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods -n kubernetes-dashboard -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=kubernetes-dashboard,app.kubernetes.io/instance=kubernetes-dashboard" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
$ kubectl -n kubernetes-dashboard port-forward $POD_NAME 8443:8443
```

Then open https://127.0.0.1:8443/ and use kubeconfig from DigitalOcean to authenticate.

#### Upgrade

Go to `kubernetes-dashboard` dir on your local where chart values will be downloaded.

```shell
$ helm repo update
$ helm search repo kubernetes-dashboard
$ helm pull kubernetes-dashboard/kubernetes-dashboard --untar
```
Modify values according your needs in `kubernetes-dashboard` directory.

```shell
$ helm ls
$ helm upgrade \
    --install kubernetes-dashboard kubernetes-dashboard/kubernetes-dashboard \
    --create-namespace \
    --namespace kubernetes-dashboard
```

#### Uninstall

```shell
$ helm uninstall kubernetes-dashboard -n kubernetes-dashboard
```

## Production

Namespace: `cash-track`.

### Prepare Secrets

Generate secrets definition

```shell
$ cp common/configs/.secret.yml.example common/configs/secret.yml
$ cp common/configs/.cloudflare-secret.yml.example common/configs/cloudflare-secret.yml
$ cp services/api/.secret.yml.example services/api/secret.yml
$ cp services/mysql/.secret.yml.example services/mysql/secret.yml
$ cp services/mysql-exporter/.secret.yml.example services/mysql-exporter/secret.yml
```

Configure values for every created files

- `common/configs/secret.yml`
- `common/configs/cloudflare-secret.yml`
- `services/api/secret.yml`
- `services/mysql/secret.yml`
- `services/mysql-exporter/secret.yml`

Every `data` value of a secret must be BASE64 encoded:

```shell
$ echo -n 'admin' | base64
```


### Setup

```shell
$ kubectl create -n monitoring configmap prometheus-configs --from-file=./services/prometheus/configs -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -
$ kubectl create -n monitoring configmap alertmanager-configs --from-file=./services/alertmanager/configs -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -
$ kubectl create -n monitoring configmap grafana-configs --from-file=./services/grafana/configs -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -
$ kubectl create -n monitoring configmap grafana-loki-configs --from-file=./services/grafana-loki/configs -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -
$ kubectl create -n monitoring configmap promtail-configs --from-file=./services/promtail/configs -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -
```

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f ./common/namespace.yml
$ kubectl apply -R -f ./common
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/prometheus
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/node-exporter
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/grafana
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/grafana-loki
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/promtail
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/alertmanager
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/redis 
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/mysql 
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/mysql-backup 
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/mysql-exporter 
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/api
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/gateway
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/website
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/frontend
$ kubectl exec deployments/api -it -- php app.php migrate
```


### Deploy

To follow deployment process for every new version once initial setup is done use commands per each service defined 

#### API

```shell
$ kubectl set image deployment/api api=cashtrack/api:1.2.9    # Deploy new tag
$ kubectl rollout status deployment/api                       # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo deployment/api                         # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history deployment/api                      # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/api                      # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

```shell
$ kubectl exec deployments/api -it -- php app.php cache:clean
$ kubectl exec deployments/api -it -- php app.php migrate
$ kubectl exec deployments/api -it -- php app.php newsletter:send Newsletter\\TelegramChannelMail --test 1
```

#### Gateway

```shell
$ kubectl set image deployment/gateway gateway=cashtrack/gateway:1.2.9    # Deploy new tag
$ kubectl rollout status deployment/gateway                               # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo deployment/gateway                                 # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history deployment/gateway                              # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/gateway                              # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

#### Website

```shell
$ kubectl set image deployment/website website=cashtrack/website:0.1.14   # Deploy new tag
$ kubectl rollout status deployment/website                               # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo deployment/website                                 # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history deployment/website                              # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/website                              # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

#### Frontend

```shell
$ kubectl set image deployment/frontend frontend=cashtrack/frontend:1.1.4  # Deploy new tag
$ kubectl rollout status deployment/frontend                               # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo deployment/frontend                                 # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history deployment/frontend                              # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/frontend                              # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

#### MySQL

```shell
$ kubectl set image statefulset/mysql mysql=cashtrack/mysql:1.0.8           # Deploy new tag of MySQL
$ kubectl rollout status statefulset/mysql                                  # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo statefulset/mysql                                    # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history statefulset/mysql                                 # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart statefulset/mysql                                 # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

#### MySQL Backup

```shell
$ kubectl set image deployment/mysql-backup backup=cashtrack/mysql-backup:0.0.5   # Deploy new tag of Backup
$ kubectl rollout status deployment/mysql-backup                                  # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo deployment/mysql-backup                                    # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history deployment/mysql-backup                                 # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/mysql-backup                                 # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

Commands: 

```shell
$ kubectl exec deployment/mysql-backup -it -- php app.php list
$ kubectl exec deployment/mysql-backup -it -- php app.php backup
$ kubectl exec deployment/mysql-backup -it -- php app.php restore <id>
$ kubectl exec deployment/mysql-backup -it -- php app.php clear --days=7
```

#### Redis

```shell
$ kubectl set image statefulset/redis redis=cashtrack/redis:1.0.1           # Deploy new tag of Redis
$ kubectl rollout status statefulset/redis                                  # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo statefulset/redis                                    # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history statefulset/redis                                 # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart statefulset/redis                                 # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

## Troubleshooting

```shell
$ kubectl port-forward service/mysql 33060:3306               # Connect to MySQL from local
$ kubectl port-forward service/redis 63790:6379               # Connect to Redis from local
$ kubectl exec pods/mysql-0 -it -- bash                       # SSH into a Pod
$ kubectl exec pods/mysql-0 --container backup -it -- bash    # SSH into a specific container of a Pod
```

### Pod stuck in `Terminating` state

```shell
$ kubectl delete pods <pod> --grace-period=0 --force            # First try to force remove <pod>
$ kubectl patch pod <pod> -p '{"metadata":{"finalizers":null}}' # If first attempt didn't work, try this one
```

Commit message:

Update upgrade instructions for nginx and cert manager

README.md, after:

# Infrastructure Definition

[![quality](https://github.com/cash-track/infra/actions/workflows/quality.yml/badge.svg?branch=main&event=push)](https://github.com/cash-track/infra/actions/workflows/quality.yml) [![deploy](https://github.com/cash-track/infra/actions/workflows/deploy.yml/badge.svg?branch=main&event=push)](https://github.com/cash-track/infra/actions/workflows/deploy.yml)

## Configure kubectl using doctl

```shell
$ doctl kubernetes cluster kubeconfig save k8s-cash-track
$ kubectl config current-context
```


### Default Namespace (optional)

Configure default namespace to avoid adding `-n namespace-name` every time

```shell
$ kubectl config get-users      # copy name of the user
$ kubectl config get-clusters   # copy name of the cluster
$ kubectl config set-context prod --namespace=cash-track --cluster={cluster} --user={user}  # use previously copied values
$ kubectl config use-context prod
```


## Dependencies

DigitalOcean managed cluster is used.


### Nginx Ingress

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/controller-v1.8.1/deploy/static/provider/do/deploy.yaml
```

#### Upgrade

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx/controller-v1.10.1/deploy/static/provider/do/deploy.yaml
```

Note. If you see some errors like "field is immutable", check for which k8s resources the error is. Most likely
you can delete old resource and try to apply again.

### Cert Manager

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.9.1/cert-manager.yaml
```

#### Upgrade

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.15.1/cert-manager.yaml
```


### Metrics Server

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/metrics-server/releases/latest/download/components.yaml
```


### GitHub Actions Runner Controller

```shell
$ helm repo add actions-runner-controller https://actions-runner-controller.github.io/actions-runner-controller
$ # or
$ helm repo update actions-runner-controller https://actions-runner-controller.github.io/actions-runner-controller
$ # then
$ helm upgrade --install --namespace actions-runner-system --create-namespace \
             --wait actions-runner-controller actions-runner-controller/actions-runner-controller \
             --set "githubWebhookServer.enabled=true"
```

Generate secret

```shell
$ cp common/actions-runner/.github-runner-secret.yml.example common/actions-runner/github-runner-secret.yml
```

Add GitHub personal access token to `common/actions-runner/github-runner-secret.yml`. Make sure you added all required permissions (see https://github.com/actions-runner-controller/actions-runner-controller#deploying-using-pat-authentication).

#### Upgrade

See https://github.com/actions/actions-runner-controller/blob/master/charts/actions-runner-controller/docs/UPGRADING.md

```shell
$ # REMEMBER TO UPDATE THE CHART_VERSION TO RELEVANT CHART VERSION!!!!
$ CHART_VERSION=0.23.3
$ 
$ curl -L https://github.com/actions/actions-runner-controller/releases/download/actions-runner-controller-0.23.3/actions-runner-controller-0.23.3.tgz | tar zxv --strip 1 actions-runner-controller/crds
$ 
$ kubectl replace -f crds/
$ 
$ # helm upgrade [RELEASE] [CHART] [flags]
$ helm upgrade actions-runner-controller \
  actions-runner-controller/actions-runner-controller \
  --install \
  --namespace actions-runner-system \
  --version ${CHART_VERSION}
 ```

### Kubernetes Dashboard

For the dashboard it is recommended to use [Kubernetes Dashboard projecs](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard). See [full installation instruction](https://gist.github.com/bikram20/4f4dbbaf5fcc874d5daee2e3b780d919).

#### Install

```shell
$ helm repo add kubernetes-dashboard https://kubernetes.github.io/dashboard/
$ helm upgrade \
    --install kubernetes-dashboard kubernetes-dashboard/kubernetes-dashboard \
    --create-namespace \
    --namespace kubernetes-dashboard \
    --set app.ingress.enabled=false \
    --set metrics-server.enabled=false \
    --set cert-manager.enabled=false \
    --set nginx.enabled=false
```

#### Usage

```shell
$ export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods -n kubernetes-dashboard -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=kubernetes-dashboard,app.kubernetes.io/instance=kubernetes-dashboard" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")
$ kubectl -n kubernetes-dashboard port-forward $POD_NAME 8443:8443
```

Then open https://127.0.0.1:8443/ and use kubeconfig from DigitalOcean to authenticate.

#### Upgrade

Go to `kubernetes-dashboard` dir on your local where chart values will be downloaded.

```shell
$ helm repo update
$ helm search repo kubernetes-dashboard
$ helm pull kubernetes-dashboard/kubernetes-dashboard --untar
```
Modify values according your needs in `kubernetes-dashboard` directory.

```shell
$ helm ls
$ helm upgrade \
    --install kubernetes-dashboard kubernetes-dashboard/kubernetes-dashboard \
    --create-namespace \
    --namespace kubernetes-dashboard
```

#### Uninstall

```shell
$ helm uninstall kubernetes-dashboard -n kubernetes-dashboard
```

## Production

Namespace: `cash-track`.

### Prepare Secrets

Generate secrets definition

```shell
$ cp common/configs/.secret.yml.example common/configs/secret.yml
$ cp common/configs/.cloudflare-secret.yml.example common/configs/cloudflare-secret.yml
$ cp services/api/.secret.yml.example services/api/secret.yml
$ cp services/mysql/.secret.yml.example services/mysql/secret.yml
$ cp services/mysql-exporter/.secret.yml.example services/mysql-exporter/secret.yml
```

Configure values for every created files

- `common/configs/secret.yml`
- `common/configs/cloudflare-secret.yml`
- `services/api/secret.yml`
- `services/mysql/secret.yml`
- `services/mysql-exporter/secret.yml`

Every `data` value of a secret must be BASE64 encoded:

```shell
$ echo -n 'admin' | base64
```


### Setup

```shell
$ kubectl create -n monitoring configmap prometheus-configs --from-file=./services/prometheus/configs -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -
$ kubectl create -n monitoring configmap alertmanager-configs --from-file=./services/alertmanager/configs -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -
$ kubectl create -n monitoring configmap grafana-configs --from-file=./services/grafana/configs -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -
$ kubectl create -n monitoring configmap grafana-loki-configs --from-file=./services/grafana-loki/configs -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -
$ kubectl create -n monitoring configmap promtail-configs --from-file=./services/promtail/configs -o yaml --dry-run=client | kubectl apply -f -
```

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f ./common/namespace.yml
$ kubectl apply -R -f ./common
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/prometheus
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/node-exporter
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/grafana
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/grafana-loki
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/promtail
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/alertmanager
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/redis 
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/mysql 
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/mysql-backup 
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/mysql-exporter 
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/api
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/gateway
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/website
$ kubectl apply -f ./services/frontend
$ kubectl exec deployments/api -it -- php app.php migrate
```


### Deploy

To follow deployment process for every new version once initial setup is done use commands per each service defined 

#### API

```shell
$ kubectl set image deployment/api api=cashtrack/api:1.2.9    # Deploy new tag
$ kubectl rollout status deployment/api                       # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo deployment/api                         # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history deployment/api                      # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/api                      # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

```shell
$ kubectl exec deployments/api -it -- php app.php cache:clean
$ kubectl exec deployments/api -it -- php app.php migrate
$ kubectl exec deployments/api -it -- php app.php newsletter:send Newsletter\\TelegramChannelMail --test 1
```

#### Gateway

```shell
$ kubectl set image deployment/gateway gateway=cashtrack/gateway:1.2.9    # Deploy new tag
$ kubectl rollout status deployment/gateway                               # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo deployment/gateway                                 # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history deployment/gateway                              # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/gateway                              # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

#### Website

```shell
$ kubectl set image deployment/website website=cashtrack/website:0.1.14   # Deploy new tag
$ kubectl rollout status deployment/website                               # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo deployment/website                                 # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history deployment/website                              # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/website                              # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

#### Frontend

```shell
$ kubectl set image deployment/frontend frontend=cashtrack/frontend:1.1.4  # Deploy new tag
$ kubectl rollout status deployment/frontend                               # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo deployment/frontend                                 # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history deployment/frontend                              # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/frontend                              # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

#### MySQL

```shell
$ kubectl set image statefulset/mysql mysql=cashtrack/mysql:1.0.8           # Deploy new tag of MySQL
$ kubectl rollout status statefulset/mysql                                  # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo statefulset/mysql                                    # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history statefulset/mysql                                 # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart statefulset/mysql                                 # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

#### MySQL Backup

```shell
$ kubectl set image deployment/mysql-backup backup=cashtrack/mysql-backup:0.0.5   # Deploy new tag of Backup
$ kubectl rollout status deployment/mysql-backup                                  # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo deployment/mysql-backup                                    # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history deployment/mysql-backup                                 # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart deployment/mysql-backup                                 # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

Commands: 

```shell
$ kubectl exec deployment/mysql-backup -it -- php app.php list
$ kubectl exec deployment/mysql-backup -it -- php app.php backup
$ kubectl exec deployment/mysql-backup -it -- php app.php restore <id>
$ kubectl exec deployment/mysql-backup -it -- php app.php clear --days=7
```

#### Redis

```shell
$ kubectl set image statefulset/redis redis=cashtrack/redis:1.0.1           # Deploy new tag of Redis
$ kubectl rollout status statefulset/redis                                  # Watch deployment status
$ kubectl rollout undo statefulset/redis                                    # Rollback current deployment
$ kubectl rollout history statefulset/redis                                 # List past deployment revision
$ kubectl rollout restart statefulset/redis                                 # Redeploy currently deployed tag
```

## Troubleshooting

```shell
$ kubectl port-forward service/mysql 33060:3306               # Connect to MySQL from local
$ kubectl port-forward service/redis 63790:6379               # Connect to Redis from local
$ kubectl exec pods/mysql-0 -it -- bash                       # SSH into a Pod
$ kubectl exec pods/mysql-0 --container backup -it -- bash    # SSH into a specific container of a Pod
```

### Pod stuck in `Terminating` state

```shell
$ kubectl delete pods <pod> --grace-period=0 --force            # First try to force remove <pod>
$ kubectl patch pod <pod> -p '{"metadata":{"finalizers":null}}' # If first attempt didn't work, try this one
```
